Update react nextjs (#199)
OpenLiberty/draft-guide-rest-client-reactjs: README.adoc

https://reactjs.org/[ReactJS^] is a JavaScript library that is used to build user interfaces. Its main purpose is to incorporate a component-based approach to create reusable UI elements. With ReactJS, you can also interface with other libraries and frameworks. Note that the names ReactJS and React are used interchangeably.

> The React application in this guide is provided and configured for you in the `src/main/frontend` directory. The application uses https://nextjs.org/[Next.js^], a https://react.dev/learn/start-a-new-react-project[React-powered frameworks^], to set up the modern React application. The `Next.js` framework provides a powerful environment for learning and building React applications, with features like server-side rendering, static site generation, and easy API routes. It is the best way to start building a highly performant React application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The React application in this guide is provided and configured for you in the `src/main/frontend` directory. The application uses https://nextjs.org/[Next.js^], a https://react.dev/learn/start-a-new-react-project[React-powered framework^], to set up the modern React application. The `Next.js` framework provides a powerful environment for learning and building React applications, with features like server-side rendering, static site generation, and easy API routes. It is the best way to start building a highly performant React application.
```

> The React application in this guide is provided and configured for you in the `src/main/frontend` directory. The application uses https://nextjs.org/[Next.js], one of the https://react.dev/learn/start-a-new-react-project[React-powered frameworks], to set up the modern React application. The `Next.js` framework provides a powerful environment for learning and building React applications, with features like server-side rendering, static site generation, and easy API routes. It is the best way to start building a new, highly performant React application.

Reviewer 2: - miss the `^` char in the links
  - `[Next.js]` -> `[Next.js^]`
  - `[React-powered frameworks]` -> `[React-powered frameworks^]`

> The React application in this guide is provided and configured for you in the `src/main/frontend` directory. The application uses https://nextjs.org/[Next.js^], one of the https://react.dev/learn/start-a-new-react-project[React-powered frameworks^], to set up the modern React application. The `Next.js` framework provides a powerful environment for learning and building React applications, with features like server-side rendering, static site generation, and easy API routes. It is the best way to start building a new, highly performant React application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The React application in this guide is provided and configured for you in the `src/main/frontend` directory. The application uses https://nextjs.org/[Next.js^], a https://react.dev/learn/start-a-new-react-project[React-powered frameworks^], to set up the modern React application. The `Next.js` framework provides a powerful environment for learning and building React applications, with features like server-side rendering, static site generation, and easy API routes. It is the best way to start building a highly performant React application.
```

artists.json
[source, json, linenums, role="code_column"]
----
include::finish/src/resources/artists.json[]
----

> The REST service that provides the resources was written for you in advance in the back-end of the application, and it responds with the [hotspot]`artists.json` in the `src/resources` directory. You will implement a ReactJS client as the front-end of your application, which consumes this JSON file and displays its contents on a single-page webpage. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The REST service that provides the resources was written for you in advance in the back end of the application, and it responds with the [hotspot]`artists.json` file  in the `src/resources` directory. You will implement a ReactJS client as the front end of your application, which consumes this JSON file and displays its contents on a single web page. 
```

=== Try what you'll build

> The `finish` directory in the root of this guide contains the finished application. The React front-end is already pre-built for you and the static files from the production build can be found in the `src/main/webapp/_next/static` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `finish` directory in the root of this guide contains the finished application. The React front end is already pre-built for you and the static files from the production build can be found in the `src/main/webapp/_next/static` directory.
```

```
endif::[]

> All the dependencies for the React front-end are listed in `src/main/frontend/src/package.json` and are installed before the build process by the `frontend-maven-plugin`. Additionally, `CSS` stylesheets files are available in the `src/main/frontend/src/styles` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the dependencies for the React front end are listed in the  `src/main/frontend/src/package.json` file and are installed before the build process by the `frontend-maven-plugin`. Also, `CSS` stylesheets files are available in the `src/main/frontend/src/styles` directory.
```

// =================================================================================================
// Project configuration 
// =================================================================================================

== Project configuration

> The front-end of your application uses Node.js to build your React code. The Maven project is configured for you to install Node.js and produce the production files, which are copied to the web content of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The front end of your application uses Node.js to build your React code. The Maven project is configured for you to install Node.js and produce the production files, which are copied to the web content of your application.
```

== Creating the default page

> You'll need to create the entry point of your React application. In the latest version of `Next.js`, it's recommended to use the https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/defining-routes[App Router], which centralizes routing logic under the `app` directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the entry point of your React application. The latest version of `Next.js` recommends  you use the https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/defining-routes[App Router], which centralizes routing logic under the `app` directory. 
```

 
To construct the home page of the web application, create a [hotspot file=0]`page.jsx` file.

[role="code_command hotspot file=0", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `page.jsx` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/page.jsx`
----

page.jsx
[source, javascript, linenums, role='code_column']
----
include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/page.jsx[]
----

> The `page.jsx` file will serve as a container for all other components. When React component [hotspot=createHome file=0]`Home` is rendered, the [hotspot=displayArtistTable file=0]`ArtistTable` components content will be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `page.jsx` file is a container for all other components. When the [hotspot=createHome file=0]`Home` React component  is rendered, the [hotspot=displayArtistTable file=0]`ArtistTable` components content are displayed.
```

> In order to render the pages correctly, it is required to add a [hotspot file=1]`layout.jsx` file which defines the `RootLayout` containing the UI that shared across all routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To render the pages correctly, add a [hotspot file=1]`layout.jsx` file that defines the `RootLayout` containing the UI that are shared across all routes.
```

include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/layout.jsx[]
----

The `page.jsx` file will serve as a container for all other components. When React component [hotspot=createHome file=0]`Home` is rendered, the [hotspot=displayArtistTable file=0]`ArtistTable` components content will be displayed.

In order to render the pages correctly, it is required to add a [hotspot file=1]`layout.jsx` file which defines the `RootLayout` containing the UI that shared across all routes.

[role="code_command hotspot file=1", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `layout.jsx` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/layout.jsx`
----

> For more detailed information on structuring `Pages` and `Layouts` in `Next.js`, please refer to the `Next.js` documentation on https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages[Pages] and https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/layouts-and-templates[Layouts]

Reviewer 2: missed a period at the end of the statement

> For more detailed information on structuring `Pages` and `Layouts` in `Next.js`, please refer to the `Next.js` documentation on https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages[Pages^] and https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/layouts-and-templates[Layouts^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, see the `Next.js` documentation on https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages[Pages^] and https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/layouts-and-templates[Layouts^].
```

// =================================================================================================
// Creating ArtistTable React component
// =================================================================================================

> == Creating ArtistTable React component

Reviewer 2: no need to change the section title as same as the comment at line 212

> A React web application is a collection of components, and each component has a specific function. You will create a component that are used in the application to acquire and display data from the REST API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A React web application is a collection of components, and each component has a specific function. You will create a component that the application uses to acquire and display data from the REST API. 
```

Create the `ArtistTable` function that fetches data from your back-end and renders it in a table. 

[role="code_command hotspot file=0", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `ArtistTable.jsx` file.#
`src/main/frontend/src/app/ArtistTable.jsx`
----

ArtistTable.jsx
[source, javascript, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=get-posts,useEffect,axios-library']
----
include::finish/src/main/frontend/src/app/ArtistTable.jsx[]
----

> At the top of the file, the [hotspot=render-client file=0]`use client` directive is used to indicate the `ArtistTable` component will be rendered on the client side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the beginning of the file, the [hotspot=render-client file=0]`use client` directive indicates the `ArtistTable` component is rendered on the client side.
```

The [hotspot=react-library file=0]`React` library imports the `react` package for you to create the [hotspot=ArtistTable file=0]`ArtistTable` function. This function must have the `export` declaration because it is being exported to the `page.jsx` module. The [hotspot=posts file=0]`posts` object is initialized using a React Hook that lets you add a state to represent the state of the posts that appear on the paginated table.

> To display the returned data, you will use pagination. Pagination is the process of separating content into discrete pages, and it can be used for handling data sets in React. In your application, you'll render the columns in the paginated table. The [hotspot=table-info file=0]`columns` constant is used to define the table that is present on the webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display the returned data, you will use pagination. Pagination is the process of separating content into discrete pages, and you can use it for handling data sets in React. In your application, you'll render the columns in the paginated table. The [hotspot=table-info file=0]`columns` constant defines the table that is present on the web page.
```

> The [hotspot=useReactTable file=0]`useReactTable` hook creates a table instance. The hook takes in the [hotspot=table-info file=0]`columns`, [hotspot=posts file=0]`posts` as parameters. The [hotspot=getCoreRowModel file=0]`getCoreRowModel` function is included for the generation of the core row model of the table, which serves as the foundational row model upon pagination and sorting build. The [hotspot=getPaginationRowModel file=0]`getPaginationRowModel` function applies pagination to the core row model, returning a row model that includes only the rows that should be displayed on the current page based on the pagination state. In addition, the [hotspot=getSortedRowModel file=0]`getSortedRowModel` function sorts the paginated table by the column headers then applies the changes to the row model. The paginated table instance is assigned to the [hotspot=table file=0]`table` constant, which renders the paginated table on the webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [hotspot=useReactTable file=0]`useReactTable` hook creates a table instance. The hook takes in the [hotspot=table-info file=0]`columns` and  [hotspot=posts file=0]`posts` as parameters. The [hotspot=getCoreRowModel file=0]`getCoreRowModel` function is included for the generation of the core row model of the table, which serves as the foundational row model upon pagination and sorting build. The [hotspot=getPaginationRowModel file=0]`getPaginationRowModel` function applies pagination to the core row model, returning a row model that includes only the rows that should be displayed on the current page based on the pagination state. In addition, the [hotspot=getSortedRowModel file=0]`getSortedRowModel` function sorts the paginated table by the column headers then applies the changes to the row model. The paginated table instance is assigned to the [hotspot=table file=0]`table` constant, which renders the paginated table on the web page.
```

Your application needs a way to communicate with and retrieve resources from RESTful web services to output the resources onto the paginated table. The https://github.com/axios/axios[Axios^] library will provide you with an HTTP client. This client is used to make HTTP requests to external resources. Axios is a promise-based HTTP client that can send asynchronous requests to REST endpoints. To learn more about the Axios library and its HTTP client, see the https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios[Axios documentation^].

> The [hotspot=get-posts]`GetArtistsInfo()` function uses the Axios API to fetch data from your back-end. This function is called when the `ArtistTable` is rendered to the page using the [hotspot=useEffect]`useEffect()` React lifecycle method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [hotspot=get-posts]`GetArtistsInfo()` function uses the Axios API to fetch data from your back end. This function is called when the `ArtistTable` is rendered to the page using the [hotspot=useEffect]`useEffect()` React lifecycle method.
```

ifdef::cloud-hosted[]
Finally, run the following command to update the URL to access the ***artists.json*** in the ***ArtistTable.jsx*** file:
```bash
sed -i 's=http://localhost:9080/artists='"https://${USERNAME}-9080.$(echo $TOOL_DOMAIN | sed 's/\.labs\./.proxy./g')/artists"'=' /home/project/guide-rest-client-reactjs/start/src/main/frontend/src/app/ArtistTable.jsx
```
endif::[]

// =================================================================================================
// Building and packaging the front-end
// =================================================================================================

== Building and packaging the front-end

> After you successfully build your components, you need to build the front-end and package your application. The Maven `process-resources` goal generates the Node.js resources, creates the front-end production build, and copies and processes the resources into the destination directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you successfully build your components, you need to build the front end and package your application. The Maven `process-resources` goal generates the Node.js resources, creates the front-end production build, and copies and processes the resources into the destination directory. 
```

> In a new command-line session, build the front-end by running the following command in the `start` directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a new command-line session, build the front end by running the following command in the `start` directory:
```

```
endif::[]

> The build may take a few minutes to complete. You can rebuild the front-end at any time with the Maven `process-resources` goal. Any local changes to your JavaScript and HTML are picked up when you build the front-end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build may take a few minutes to complete. You can rebuild the front end at any time with the Maven `process-resources` goal. Any local changes to your JavaScript and HTML are picked up when you build the front-end.
```

ifndef::cloud-hosted[]

> Navigate to the http://localhost:9080[http://localhost:9080^] web application root to view the front-end of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the http://localhost:9080[http://localhost:9080^] web application root to view the front end of your application.
```

endif::[]

ifdef::cloud-hosted[]

> Click the following button to view the front-end of your application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the following button to view the front end of your application:
```

== Testing the React client

> `Next.js` supports a variety of testing tools. This guide uses `Vitest` for unit testing the React components, with the test file [hotspot file]`App.test.jsx` located in `src/main/frontend/__tests__/` directory. The `App.test.jsx` file is a simple JavaScript file that tests against the `page.jsx` component. There are no explicit test cases that are written for this application. To learn more about `Vitest`, please visit https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/testing/vitest[Setting up Vitest with Next.js].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Next.js` supports various testing tools. This guide uses `Vitest` for unit testing the React components, with the test file [hotspot file]`App.test.jsx` located in `src/main/frontend/__tests__/` directory. The `App.test.jsx` file is a simple JavaScript file that tests against the `page.jsx` component. No explicit test cases are written for this application. To learn more about `Vitest`, see https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/testing/vitest[Setting up Vitest with Next.js].
```

== Testing the React client

> `Next.js` supports a variety of testing tools. This guide uses `Vitest` for unit testing the React components, with the test file [hotspot file]`App.test.jsx` located in `src/main/frontend/__tests__/` directory. The `App.test.jsx` file is a simple JavaScript file that tests against the `page.jsx` component. There are no explicit test cases that are written for this application. To learn more about `Vitest`, please visit https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/testing/vitest[Setting up Vitest with Next.js]

Reviewer 2: miss a period at the end

----

[role="edit_command_text"]

> To run the default test, you can add the [hotspot=node-tests file=1]`testing` configuration to the `frontend-maven-plugin`. Rerun the Maven `process-resources` goal to rebuild the front-end and run the tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the default test, you can add the [hotspot=node-tests file=1]`testing` configuration to the `frontend-maven-plugin`. Rerun the Maven `process-resources` goal to rebuild the front end and run the tests.
```
